# CT-Reconstruction

## Project Overview
This project simulates the physics of a CT scanner. It takes 2D phantom images, generates sinograms (forward projection), and then reconstructs the original image using filtered back projection. 

## Prerequisites
Before running the scripts, ensure you have the following installed:
* **CMake**
* **C++ Compiler** (g++ used in development)
* **ImageMagick** 

## How to run
The project is automated via bash scripts located in the `scripts/` directory.

### 1. Setup
From the **project root**, make the scripts executable and initialize the build environment:
```bash
chmod +x scripts/*.sh
scripts/setup.sh
```
This will create an intial build

### 2. Testing
Use:
```bash
scripts/test.sh
```

This will generate all five simulation results and display them in an html page.

Use run.sh to test a specific phantom. It takes an input of an integer 1-5. No input will run the first phantom,'1'. Example:
```bash
scripts/run.sh 3
```
To run manually, the executable lives in the build folder and is called ct_reconstruct. Run from project root:
```bash
cd build
./ct_reconstruct [input integer here]
```

The results for both run.sh and manually running the executable will appear in the data folder within the project root. An external application 'InfranView' was used to automatically open the PGMs generated by the executable, but the run.sh will convert the images to pngs and store them in the data folder for manual viewing if that application is not found.